---
created: '2024-02-02'
date: '2024-02-09'
title: 'My 2024 setup'
excerpt: |
  My hardware and software setup this year
layout: blog
tags:
  - Software
  - Hardware
---

{% overview %}
With the lunar new year is just around the corner, it got me thinking
about all the things that help me stay productive and entertained
throughout the year. So, I thought it'd fun to share my current setup
that I used both for work and personal use.
{% /overview %}

{% permalink %}

## Hardware

{% /permalink %}

Unlike most, I don't have a fancy desktop setup due to my nomadic
lifestyle so a laptop is the only one that I can rely on to stay
connected on the go.

My seasonal trusty companion from my oldie
university days has been the Dell XPS 9570. Recently, I've switched to
its successor, the 9520. Sure, the Nvidia graphics might drain the
battery faster and occasionally the driver's upgrade was painful when it
didn't boot, but hey, sacrifices must be made for other
GPU-heavy-compting tasks.

BTW, I ran dual boot on this machine one for
Linux and the other for Windows. So that I can make use of all of that
external Nvidia GPU's power.

{% permalink %}

## Software

{% /permalink %}

For coding, I've been rocking Neo Vim for over two years now, and it's
been a blast - I just fell in love with Vim motions.

I use Opensuse Tumbleweed to stay up to date with the new packages, and
kernels while keeping the whole system rock solid. This distro coming
along with BTRFS and snapper has been a dream. Rollbacks are a breeze,
and the FSHS system is way "saner" than what I experienced with NixOS
in the past I can also avoid the headache of setting up the entire
environment back when I was using Arch. The Nixos
[problem](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/the-nixos-foundations-call-to-action-s3-costs-require-community-support/28672)
with aws s3 cost makes me hesitate to try it again but if things settle
down for like 2 years, I will probably give it a go.

Plus, I can use nix and still get to leverage the power of nix-pkg in
Opensuse. (Though, gotta admit, those libgl issues can be tricky, solved
by nix-wrapper-gl or switching to AppImage/Flatpak if needed.)

With nix on top of OpenSUSE,The new rust-based core-utils package sits
happily on top of this setup, without any breakage. Though, my laptop
comes with Nvidia, which means sticking to X for now, no Wayland just yet.

Also Opensuse's KDE integration is top-notch, and it comes with the
pretty handy tool the KDE Connect App. That go along well with my android
phone.

And when it comes to dotfiles, Tuckr is the tool that I used to keep
things organized. ✨ Though I've still tried to figure out how to
integrate nix and home-manager with Tuckr.

I also dual-booting with Windows to keep me covered for productivity
with Office and have fun with Steam games.

{% permalink %}

## Programs

{% /permalink %}

Here are my list of programs or packages as you might say that I think
they are pretty handy to keep them around:

- My primary shell is `fish`. Its fuzzy file finder and
  auto completion are good and the `fish` lang itself are easy to write
  some simple scripts.
- `uutils-coreutils` to replace the `coreutils`. So that my scripts can
  transferred between OSes without any pain 🤭
- `direnv` to keep environment variables stay at their places.
- `zoxide` to replace `cd` help to navigating around easier
- `fzf` is only used in my `neovim` to find the files around a project
- `bat` is super charged version of `cat` which support colored syntax
- `fd` is alternative of `find`. That's much faster
- `eza` is also a good alternative for `ls` for quick directory
  listings

{% permalink %}

### Browser

{% /permalink %}

My primary browser is Firefox but for the chromium version I use Brave.
I think they're good browsers that comes with some built-in privacy
features. Main extension that I am using are:

- Bitwarden - For keeping my password safe

- Ublock origin - To block ads in firefox

- For customization, I've used both Stylus and Dark Reader to avoid
  _light-themed_ website.

---

Hope you find that interesting. And you got some inspirations about what
should you do to improve your own setup.

**Later, until next time!**
